hello and welcome to our we are bbc good
food series in which we introduce you to
our team and contributors
i'm keith kendrick magazine's editor and
i'm delighted to welcome rosie burkett
food writer stylist tv presenter and
co-presenter
on the bbc good food podcast with tom
carriage
hi rosie how are you doing hello i'm
good
thank you yeah great happy to be here
how are things in your part of the world
which is kent isn't it
yeah yes yeah um so they are
they're good they're very hot um i know
we've been talking about that already
how hot it is
um but yeah lovely and sunny down here
um
and in in the midst of summer so um
enjoying all the lovely produce and
everything that's
around at the moment so how's how's
lockdown been affecting you over the
last few months
you learned any new skills come up with
any more new recipes
how's it how's it been tended to your
allotment perhaps
well my allotment has been somewhat
neglected um
but we have been yeah i've been cooking
loads
um i've been yeah just kind of i think
like everyone
it's all it's all suddenly become about
the home cooking and
for me i went into overdrive um sort of
manically
cooking up recipes and and i felt kind
of compelled to share
um to share my knowledge and and
everything that i was cooking all the
time because i know that so many people
were looking for
um you know for inspiration and for
ideas so i kind of was just cooking
non-stop
um and yeah i i definitely got back into
sourdough after a bit of a
hiatus and made loads of pizzas
was really enjoying my pizza oven um
made fish and chips i did a lot of kind
of food that you miss
you know that that we couldn't actually
get hold of because of lockdown
so yeah i made i had to go some lovely
samosas
and yeah just kind of cooking non-stop i
feel like people that love
food were sort of slightly lucky really
because there wasn't much else that we
could do
well i i resisted the sourdough
bandwagon for
a long time because i just thought it
was going to take ages and ages of you
know kneading and pounding
but then i um then i looked at our own
barney there's masuri's
sort of master classes and it's
incredibly therapeutic isn't it it's
incredibly easy and it's so satisfying
and rewarding it's just you know grow
that starter for five days
and then you know add some water add
some salt do a bit of twisting and
folding keep leaving it
yeah the next day you've just so worked
yeah it's amazing and i think so many
people felt you know just felt like they
had the time because
the thing with having a sourdough
starter is you know you do have to tend
to it a little bit and
you know although it can sit quite
happily for a while in the fridge
when you're baking regularly you have to
keep feeding it and i think for some
people who are leading busy lives and
out and about
you know going to the office or whatever
it's not a realistic it's not achievable
but because so
you know because we were all stuck at
home people really their imaginations
really got captured by making sourdough
and
realizing how you know how natural and
easy it is to do
so yeah i've been going i've been baking
a sourdough loaf
a day um wow i've i've kind of
i've i've pulled back from it a little
bit because my kids aren't as impressed
with my
sourdough bread as i am um which has
meant that i've got quite a few crusts
lying around stale crust i wonder if you
had any advice on what i might uh might
do with those oh yeah well don't throw
them away
um there's so many things you can do
with with leftover soda and i think
everyone's in the same
boat because the the end of the um loaf
tends to go a bit
stale and it's really hard to cut isn't
it so you end up with these kind of like
ends of sourdough um so what i tend to
do is make
um bread crumbs that's kind of always a
good thing to have in
you know you can make you can blitz them
up into breadcrumbs and have them in the
freezer for when you want to do a nice
crunchy
topping for something or you want to pan
a something or
anything like that another thing is
making croutons
um so kind of if it's still you know
not too stale to rip apart rip them up
and toss them in
a bit of olive oil i've been adding
actually anchovy fillets
into my croutons lately like chopping up
anchovies
and putting them in with my croutons and
olive oil and the anchovies go really
really crispy
um and that kind of coats the the
breadcrumbs so you get these lovely
you know savory anchovy breadcrumbs
which are great for salads especially
caesar salads and stuff like that
so um croutons and breadcrumbs is an
obvious one and then
other than that you know using um using
them for thickening up
gazpacho or um you can soak them in a
bit of milk or in a bit of water
and to soften them up and then use them
as a lovely thickener for
really good in gazpacho really good in
romesco sauce
nice to add into kind of any sauce that
you're going to blitz up
and yeah use it like that really as an
ingredient as well
well you've also got a great recipe in
in
this month's august issue of good food
which is a roast fennel and bread
gratin i think that uses sourdough as
well i presume
it soaks up all the all the juices yeah
exactly so
i mean fennel is quite um it releases
quite a lot of moisture when it's
roasted so the
sourdough soaks up those uh lovely
fennel flavors and also the cream
um that you gratinate it with so that's
that's another really good one
as well so every month uh rosie you uh
you focus on a star ingredient
yeah and this month in august it's
fennel uh what what other things can we
do with fennel
oh gosh fennel is i mean the thing is
with fennel is it's quite divisive
because some people really don't like
anise flavors
um so if you if you're not a fan of
those kind of
licorice anise flavors then you might
not be into fennel as much as me but i
absolutely love fennel
um and there's so much you can do with
it slice it up
raw very finely it's wonderful in a
salad
you know with lemon juice and olive oil
actually one of the recipes in the
current issue with fennel
uses um raw sliced fennel and
pickled peaches so pickling the the
peaches that are so good at the moment
and then roasted um almonds they're
roasted with a bit of smoked paprika so
they're nice and crunchy and a little
bit spicy
and that's a lot it's a lovely salad so
i've got a wedding anniversary coming
and i'm planning to do a
kind of a braised chicken legs and and
roast a crown but i was thinking about
putting
uh fennel into the braising uh legs is
that
you advise that is that a good um good
shot i think i think that would be
lovely because when you when you sort of
slow roast
and it really kind of intensifies and
caramelizes and it goes all soft and the
sugars
really come out so it becomes sweeter
and that will pick up on all those
delicious sticky chicken juices the
amazing key
we're coming into the end of summer and
september is
famously a big harvest season some
incredible produce
um around uh can you talk us through
some of your favorite ingredients
around um that time of year yeah so i
mean the next
the next seasonal star is all about
squash
um and that's a big one for me um and
it's kind of something to look forward
to um especially when you're on the
allotment you know you watch them kind
of you watch the
the squash plants growing and their
vines kind of stretching out
um and their tendrils and then they sort
of swell up and and
and get nice and uh nice and
ready to harvest and um yeah so i love
i love using um squash so many varieties
aren't there
so many varieties uh my neighbor gets a
delivery
uh from you know from one of the uh the
organic companies and she always gives
me the squash because she doesn't like
them which i think is uh
is rather foolish do you have a favorite
type of squash
oh well i love um red curry squash
that's a really
sweet one um crown prince is absolutely
delicious really rich
and kind of yeah because some of them
are more kind of creamy and luxurious
than other
varieties um but yeah it's just about
basically
getting out there and and trying them
out and seeing what you prefer if you
prefer a kind of
richer squash like a crown prince then
that's
that's a really really good one but if
you prefer those lighter kind of summer
squashes
like spaghetti squash which really is
just a vehicle for
butter i think and black pepper
and i love just cutting those in half
roasting them and then just
pulling the um the flesh and just oh so
good with either like butter or cheese
um yeah absolutely gorgeous um
and one of the recipes that i've done in
the new issue
is a kind of um a big pasta bake
with um squash and
um sausage meat and
it's got um a bechamel that you make
with
infused with sage and brown butter so
it's it's like a kind of
it's slightly inspired by the famous
tortelli dazuka
from italy and it's got all those
flavors going on
and you've got the lovely sweetness of
the squash with the salty sausage meat
and i think that's something that works
really well that contrast
i'll definitely be giving that a go i
because there's so much
produce around that time of year um
there's also a glut of things and people
don't tend to know
uh you know what to do with it maybe
just put it in the compost and then
that's it but
you know what about pickling and
preserving is is there any advice and
tips you can give us around
what we can do and how we can do it yeah
i mean
i think definitely pickling and
preserving lovely things to do and if
you've got the time you know
to take an afternoon and um take some of
your
your harvest haul and preserve them um
then that's a lovely that's a lovely
thing to do because then you can just
keep dipping into
into whatever you've made and it you
know especially with fermented
ingredients like
i i keep getting kohlrabi in my um veg
box at the moment
and it's one of those vegetables that
you sometimes
don't really know what to do with
because it hasn't got a particularly
interesting flavor it's quite watery and
while it's got a lovely crunch to it
it's not you know you don't go oh i love
the flavor of kohlrabi because it's just
not
got that sorry kohlrabi
it's like a kind of bulbous like bulb um
and it's kind of it's similar to a
radish but it's much harder
so that they are kohlrabi is absolutely
great for fermenting
and when you ferment it it it you know
it turns sour
it's tangy it's got a lot more going on
so that's definitely an example of a
summer vegetable
that really benefits from fermenting um
and also i i've i've experimented over
the years with fermenting tomatoes
um and that was something that the
ukrainian food writer olya hercules kind
of
um brought to my attention in her first
book mamushka
and when you ferment tomatoes because of
the water content in them
they go kind of fizzy so that's an
amazing if you're growing your own
tomatoes at the moment there's so many
tomatoes around at the moment aren't
they so yeah
i guess he's really you know forcing it
on
to explode yeah and i mean i don't know
if you're growing tomatoes my tomatoes
are still green
and still need a lot of um sunshine to
ripen up but
if you like if you wait towards the end
of the summer the tomatoes just keep
getting better and better
um so that's definitely an ingredient
that i that i love at this time of year
and you know into september that they're
just
the british tomatoes get better i'm
going to have to transcribe this
interview because this all sounds
absolutely amazing to me i guess a lot
of you the recipes that you've been
talking about or certainly the
inspiration is in your
in your book the joyful home cook um
what's that about what's the inspiration
behind it it's been out a little while
now
yeah so it came out last year and um it
really is
all about getting people excited about
home cooking
so the title kind of gives it away um i
wanted to really emphasize the joy
of cooking and the joy of kind of
connecting with ingredients and using
your hands and making things from
scratch
but also you know giving people ideas
and shortcuts and hacks and lots of tips
for
things to make to keep in this is
something that i really think
i really believe strongly is taking a
little bit of time when you feel like it
not when you're rushed or you're
stressed or you haven't got time but
when you when you've got a nice
afternoon and a lot of us have had a lot
more time on our hands lately obviously
because of
covid um you know taking that time to
make something really interesting and
delicious
that can add an extra dimension to your
food so there's a lot of that throughout
the book as well as recipes um you know
everything from simple suppers to
you know bigger feasts and more kind of
complex dishes
more more like wow dishes um there's
also lots of things like there's lots of
ferments and pickles and sauces and
butters and
and little things that you can make and
keep in and freeze and then bust out to
kind of add
an extra dimension and extra wow to your
cooking so i really wanted to collect
all the things that i've learned over
the last 12 years working in food
and chefs interviewing chefs and running
my own pop-ups
and doing guest dinners and learning
from other chefs and you know the whole
industry is such a collaborative
thing and i've picked up so many things
like
like fermenting and making sourdough and
all these things that have changed my
cooking
my home cooking for better and i wanted
to kind of put them all in a book
and then you know let people pick and
choose what they want to do and
hopefully feel inspired and give them
new ideas
well i'm inspired i'm sure everybody
who's watching this will be inspired so
thanks rosie find rosie's seasonal feats
bbc good food magazine on sale now
and don't forget you can uh you can hear
rosie on our bbc good food podcast with
tom carriage
where everything is discussed from
baking to barbecues
you find it online at bbcgoodfood.com
have a great day
and thank you rosie thanks keith bye
you